Formatting (#19)
dftbplus/hsd-python: docs/hsd.rst

be the closing delimiter. The attribute (typically the unit of the data
which a node contains) is specified between square brackets after
the node name.

The equal sign can not only be used to assign data as node content (provided
the data fits into one line), but also to assign a single child node as content
for a given node. This leads to a compact and expressive notation for those
cases, where (by the semantics of the input) a given node is only allowed to
have a single child node as content. The tree above is a piece of a typical
DFTB+ input, where only one child node is allowed for the nodes ``Hamiltonian``
and ``Filling``, respectively. (They specify the type of the Hamiltonian
and the filling function.) By making use of equal signs, the
simplified HSD representation would look as compact as ::

  Hamiltonian = Dftb {
    Scc = Yes
    Filling = Fermi {
      Temperature [Kelvin] = 77
    }
  }

and still represent the same tree.

Mapping to dictionaries
=======================

Being basically a subset of XML, HSD data is best represented as an XML
DOM-tree. However, very often a dictionary representation is more desirable,

> especially, when the language used to query and manipulate the tree offers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
especially when the language used to query and manipulate the tree offers
```

dictionaries as primary data type (e.g. Python). The data in an HSD input
can be easily represented with the help of nested dictionaries and lists. The
input from the previous section would have the following representation as
Python dictionary (or as a JSON formatted input file)::

  {
      "Hamiltonian": {
          "Dftb": {
              "Scc": Yes,
              "Filling": {
                  "Fermi": {
                      "Temperature": 77,
                      "Temperature.attrib": "Kelvin"
                  }
              }
          }
      }
  }

The attribute of a node is stored under a special key containting the name of
the node and the ``.attrib`` suffix.

> One slight complication of the dictionary representation arrises in the case,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One slight complication of the dictionary representation arises in the case
```

> when a given node has multiple child nodes with the same name, such as ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of node which has multiple child nodes with the same name ::
```

(instead of a single dictionary as in the usual case)::

  {
      "ExternalField": {
          // Note the list of dictionaries here!
          "PointCharges": [
              {
                  "GaussianBlurWidth": 3,
                  "CoordsAndCharges": [
                      [3.3, -1.2, 0.9, 9.2],
                      [1.2, -3.4, 5.6, -3.3]
                  ]
              },
              {
                  "GaussianBlurWidth": 10,
                  "CoordsAndCharges": [
                      [1.0,  2.0, 3.0, 4.0 ],
                      [-1.0, -2.0, -3.0, -4.0 ]
                  ]
              },
          ]
      }
  }

The mapping works in both directions, so that this dictionary (or the JSON file
created from it) can be easily converted back to the HSD form again.

Processing related information
==============================

Additional to the data stored in an HSD-file, further processing related
information can be recorded on demand. The current Python implementation is able
to record following additional data for each HSD node:

* the line, where the node was defined in the input (helpful for printing out
  informative error messages),

> * the name of the HSD node as found in the input (useful if the tag names are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the name of the HSD node, as found in the input (useful if the tag names are
```

  converted to lower case to ease case-insensitive handling of the input) and

> * whether an equal sign was used to open the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* whether an equals sign was used to open the block.
```

> If those information are asked to be recored, a special key with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this information is being recorded, a special key with the
```

    }
  }

in the file `test.hsd`, parse it and convert the node names to lower case
(to make the input processing case-insensitive). Using the Python command ::

  inpdict = hsd.load("test.hsd", lower_tag_names=True, include_hsd_attribs=True)

will yield the following dictionary representation of the input::

  {
      'hamiltonian.hsdattrib': {'equal': True, 'line': 0, 'tag': 'Hamiltonian'},
      'hamiltonian': {
          'dftb.hsdattrib': {'line': 0, 'tag': 'Dftb'},
          'dftb': {
              'scc.hsdattrib': {'equal': True, 'line': 1, 'tag': 'Scc'},
              'scc': True,
              'filling.hsdattrib': {'equal': True, 'line': 2, 'tag': 'Filling'},
              'filling': {
                  'fermi.hsdattrib': {'line': 2, 'tag': 'Fermi'},
                  'fermi': {
                      'temperature.attrib': 'Kelvin',
                      'temperature.hsdattrib': {'equal': True, 'line': 3,
                                                'tag': 'Temperature'},
                      'temperature': 77
                  }
              }
          }
      }
  }

The recorded line numbers can be used to issue helpful error messages with

> information about the line, where the user should search for the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information about where the user should search for the problem.
```

> The node names and the formatting information about the equal sign can ensure,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node names and formatting information about the equal sign ensures
```

> that the formatting is similar to the original one, if the data is damped

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the formatting is similar to the original HSD, if the data is dumped
```

into the HSD format again. Dumping the dictionary with ::

  hsd.dump(inpdict, "test2-formatted.hsd", use_hsd_attribs=True)

would indeed yield ::

  Hamiltonian = Dftb {
    Scc = Yes
    Filling = Fermi {
      Temperature [Kelvin] = 77
    }
  }

which is basically identical with the original input. If the additional

> processing information is not recorded when the data is loaded or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processing information is not recorded when the data is loaded, or
```

it is not considered when the data is dumped as HSD again ::

  inpdict = hsd.load("test.hsd", lower_tag_names=True)
  hsd.dump(inpdict, "test2-unformatted.hsd")

> the resulting formatting will differ from the original form more::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the resulting formatting will more strongly differ from the original HSD ::
```
